---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Aligning books

Once you have your Storyteller server up and running, you can start managing
your new library! In order to produce an aligned book, Storyteller needs two
things:

1. An EPUB book. EPUB is an open file format for ebooks, and most online book
   stores will provide EPUB files for their books, though many unfortunately
   still use DRM ("Digital Rights Management"). Storyteller _cannot_ work with
   books that are locked with DRM. ACSM files, AZW4 files, Mobipocket files,
   Apple Fairplay encrypted EPUBs, etc, will not work with Storyteller.
2. An audiobook. This can either be provided as any number of MP4, M4A, M4B, or
   MP3 files, or any number of ZIP archives of files of those types. If
   providing multiple files, it's best to ensure that they're alphanumerically
   ordered. Again, these files must not be protected by DRM; Storyteller cannot
   process or strip DRM-protected files.

## Uploading a book

Once you have your book files, you can upload them to your Storyteller server.
Navigate to your web interface and click the "Add book" button, which will open
a dialogue where you can upload each file, first the EPUB, and then the
audiobook files. After your file uploads have completed, you can click the
"Start processing" button, which will begin the automated alignment process.

Storyteller runs entirely on your hardware, which means the length of the
alignment process will vary depending on your hardware. Most of the processing
time is made up by the automated transcription of the audiobook, which is a very
resource intensive task. This will go faster if you have faster CPU cores, more
CPU cores, or a CUDA-capable GPU, but it's expected that the entire alignment
process will take around 1-4 hours for most books on most relatively modern
hardware.

:::info GPU acceleration

If you have a CUDA- or ROCm-capable GPU, and would like to use that rather than
your CPU for transcription, check out the
[instructions in the Getting Started Guide](/docs/intro/getting-started#gpus).

:::

Please note that the transcription task will, by default, use as many CPU cores
and as much RAM as is available, and Docker, by default, will give it access to
all of the resources on your system. Given how long the transcription task can
take, this is likely not what you want, especially if you are running other
services on your system. It's recommended that you use the `--memory` and
`--cpus` flags on your `docker run` command to limit the resources available to
the API service container. For example, the following will run the container
with access to 24GB of memory and 8 CPU cores:

```shell
docker run -v ~/Documents/Storyteller:/data -p 8001:8001 --memory=24g --cpus=8 registry.gitlab.com/storyteller-platform/storyteller:latest
```

## Where do I get DRM-free books?

DRM ("Digital Rights Management") is a category of software that attempts to
limit access to digital goods. iTunes used to use DRM for music bought through
the iTunes store; the MP3 files that users downloaded from iTunes could _only_
be played on their Apple devices. In the book publishing world, the most common
DRM schemes are from Adobe, Amazon, and Apple.

It is unfortunately the case that most book publishers and sellers only provide
digital book files with DRM protection. Finding alternatives that provide
DRM-free options can be a challenge.

For audiobooks, try [Libro.fm](https://libro.fm/). They're an online platform
for audiobooks that sell only DRM-free audiobook files, and they share revenue
from your purchase with your local book store. Without a monthly membership,
their prices for some books can be very high, but they have a massive selection
of books; I have yet to be unable to find what I'm looking for there.
[Downpour.com](https://www.downpour.com/) also sells DRM free audiobooks that
can be downloaded as .m4b or .mp3 files.

For ebooks, the alternatives are a little less promising. Some publishers, like
Tor and Dragonsteel (Brandon Sanderson's publishing company) simply provide
books DRM-free, though that doesn't mean that all online storefronts make it
straightforward to actually access the book files directly. I personally
purchase ebooks through [Rakuten kobo](https://www.kobo.com/); it's easy to
download book files from your purchased books, and books that are sold without
DRM can be downloaded as EPUB files.
