---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Other e-reader apps

There are also other ebook reader apps that can display and play the books
produced by Storyteller, because Storyteller produces EPUB 3-compliant ebook
files.

Unfortunately, the Media Overlay specification for EPUB is relatively new, and
has not been implemented by very many e-readers to date.

## BookFusion

The app [BookFusion](https://www.bookfusion.com/) has been tested with
Storyteller-produced ebooks, but it has less robust audiobook features than the
[Storyteller mobile apps](/docs/reading-your-books/storyteller-apps). On the
other hand, it has far more robust library management, sharing, and ebook
features.

To add a Storyteller book to BookFusion, navigate to your Storyteller web
interface on your mobile device and download the book files that you wish to
read. Then open the BookFusion app and click on the blue-and-white "upload"
button in the top right corner. Here, you should be able to select your
downloaded Storyteller book from your Downloads folder.

## Thorium Reader

[Thorium Reader](https://www.edrlab.org/software/thorium-reader/) is a free and
[open-source](https://github.com/edrlab/thorium-reader) EPUB reader for Windows
10 and 11, macOS, and GNU/Linux that supports Storyteller-produced ebooks.

To add a Storyteller book to Thorium Reader, go to your Storyteller web
interface, download the book files you wish to read, and then open the book with
Thorium Reader either from a file manager or by pressing the "+" button in the
Thorium Reader interface. To start listening to the book, press the "Activate
Readaloud" button (speaker icon).

## Colibrio Reader

[Colibrio Reader](https://www.colibrio.com/) focuses on preserving authors,
publishers and designers original visual style. Links to
[Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.colibrio.reader&hl=en_US)
&amp; [Web App](https://demo.colibrio.com/)

To add a Storyteller book to Colibrio Reader, go to your Storyteller web
interface, download the book files you wish to read, and then open the book with
Colibrio by choosing Browse and selecting the downloaded file.

## Suggestions Are Welcome!

If anyone finds any apps that have better support for EPUB Media Overlays and
allow users to supply their own book files, please [let us know](/docs/say-hi)!
